if you ever feel down and out don't
worry just remember that the government
told you it's your fault that inflation
is so high it's your fault that you
can't afford to buy stuff and you're
asking for more pay it's your fault you
came here for the truth so let me unveil
that for you that's right we should not
look at the amount of money the
government has pumped into this system
no no no it's your fault now of course
we need look at something serious I'm
going to show you what Janet yelen
finally admitted I'm going to show you
what's happening at a deeper level I'm
going to show you of course what's going
on with Burger King and McDonald's
Target and Walmart all that stuff but
the first you know section of this video
is really going to be about what's
happening with the government Now
understand that I'll be talking about
the US government here primarily but
this extends out to Canada to the UK
Australia and so on most countries are
going in this exact Direction and if we
follow that Playbook and look at it
around the world you you basically see
the same activities and that means
you're going to have to pay more today
will be considered the good old days at
some point in the near future let's look
at this jened Ellen says that many
Americans still struggling with
inflation the US Treasury secretary
expresses concerns over substantial
increases in living costs I want to make
something clear in between when she was
fed bed chair and then treasury
secretary she was getting paid
$250,000 per speaking engagement so they
would have her you know going here or
there and they would give her 250 Grand
just to hear her speak something that is
I'm sure of very low value and this is
the way that things work you see she's
completely disconnected with reality
she's like hey I didn't know inflation
was so bad right I mean I'm looking at
the stats 3% of course she doesn't do
her shopping of course she doesn't have
to worry about little bills she's
getting paid $250,000 to show up for an
hour somewhere and do a speech how could
that person have anything to do with
even a normal well to-do person I mean
250 grand for a speaking engagement a
lot of very successful entrepreneurs
don't get that and and she's getting 250
all right they see it when they shop for
the food they see in terms of the
rentals with the higher mortgage rate is
tough for the young people who would
like to buy a house to enter the market
that's right although wages have gone up
significantly uh what okay and at least
on average more than prices have gone up
there are substantial increases in
prices that are important to people it's
it's substantial increases in a
relatively short period of time that are
very noticeable to people and so maybe
it wasn't wise to pump all that cash
into the system maybe maybe I don't know
you you tell me in the comments let's
let's let's have that conversation or
maybe it was I I really don't know right
I mean Maybe I'm Wrong maybe I'm wrong
it's not a good idea to pump 40% of all
the cash that's ever been pumped into
this system in a year and a half right
in there it's
like that's absurd they were buying of
the Federal Reserve they were buying
mortgage back security saying we're
going to make sure that we stabilize the
housing market when the housing prices
were going straight up it doesn't make
any sense until you understand that it's
a transfer of wealth from the everybody
to the few you understand that that's
what you have to understand it's not
about anything else it's a transfer of
wealth and what happens here there are
periods of time when we have deflation
deflation unless I mean depends on how
that deflation is going but in many
cases the deflation is a leveling of the
playing field for a period of time and
then we have you know sort of the you
know what happens after which is
inflation however if you can inflate for
a long long period of time you create
more divide and that's really what
ultimately what they are trying to do
now I want to connect that in with this
here okay the repercussions of relying
on stimulus for economic growth and
growing debt faster than the ability to
pay for it have significant Economic
Consequences the recent surge in debt
will only further handicap our economy
and prosperity in the
future you have an issue okay this is by
the way real investment advice great
resource I
interviewed um you know the founder I
believe he is of this on my channel
before okay
understand
this for every like every dollar of debt
that's pumped into the system you get
less growth out of
it if they were to put a dollar in there
you know 50 years ago they would have
got so much now every year that's
diminishing so you have to pump in more
just to get that $1 I should say it that
way you have to pump more in to get that
$1 dollar of growth out it's no
different absolutely no different than a
drug addict or an alcoholic who needs
more of that stimulus to get that high
to get the feeling of pleasure or
whatever it is that they get there's no
difference here no difference now today
you know there was a time when we could
watch TV shows and movies and get
excited and so on now people have to
binge watch entire series sitting on the
couch just sitting there until the
entire series is complete I remember
having to wait as a kid for you know
that next day or the next week whenever
it was on now we just get the stimulus
just being just just force-fed into us
and pretty soon we're going to be
jacking in like Neo in The Matrix
stimulus okay stick with me here now
what's happening is this problem of two
much debt now yes I've heard from others
out there that the debt doesn't matter
well of course the number doesn't
matter it's 34 trillion 27 even debt to
GDP ratios you know I argue that's more
that's one step more important but it
still doesn't matter what you have to
understand is if there's too much debt
that's get put gets put out there then
the FED will have the long story short I
can give you the long story but the long
long story short is the Fed will have to
monetize that debt and it not only
creates
inflation um price inflation in a you
know relatively short period of time
it's
instantaneous it's instantaneous so if
you think you've ever experienced
inflation my
goodness the the direct monetization of
that debt will create instant
devaluation of the currency average us
vehicle age hits record 12.6 years now I
don't think people should necessarily
just get a new car you know just for the
fun of it but it does give you a little
anecdotal evidence that the cars are too
expensive people don't want have the
money to spend and they're trying to
stretch their dollar we also see this
here uh well let me show you this chart
us average age by vehicle type um
certainly getting more and more and more
it's not not that the cars are built any
better we know that Burger King to
launch $5 value many to hit back back at
McDonald's Americans are cutting back on
dining out and fast food chains are
rolling out deals to spark demand you
saw what McDonald's is doing you saw you
know other companies are basically
saying hey like Walmart they're trying
to bring in lower cost items and keep
them there although they're shrink
flated to the
maximum we have this literally it is a
fact concerns around the consumer have
risen particularly at the low end and
this is company mentions of lowincome
consumer this is coming right out of
Goldman Sachs so they're pulling this
data and this has been an issue because
of course these consumers are buying the
McDonald's they're buying the Walmarts
they're buying at these places and if
they are hurting well then they're in
trouble they're in trouble big time okay
so keep that in mind job gains and wage
growth remain healthy particularly for
low lower income earners so the idea
here is oh no no no this is this is
nothing because you know we don't see uh
the lower income earners having a
problem with getting a job and so on I
mean I don't know what they are talking
about higher inflation likely weight on
consumer spending power and sentiment in
the first
quarter um you know I I I do believe
that this is something that we can all
agree on but it's not just you know s
it's it's everybody everybody's aect
affected by that except for the Janet
yellin of the world and then when you
look at wholesale inflation understand
there's the you know on the producer
side of things uh that hit the highest
rate in the year so we know that
inflation is in a position where it is
sticky it's too high and if there are
and they clearly are they were unwilling
to bring interest rates up to a very
high level to actually
forcefully create a recession a
reduction in the demand yes that's that
punishes yes we know that but the bad
tasting medicine is really what we need
and we just need it for a short period
of time now we got to face that music
for a much longer period of time and
then you get people who are pushed to
the edge and this is just an example we
see it all the time within the United
States we see what's happening with
California and New York and other places
where there's internal migration people
leaving California they're going to
Arizona maybe they're going to Texas we
see people leaving New York they're
going often times to
Florida but also same situation looking
at this net interprovincial migration in
Canadian census looking at it comparing
it I mean come on Toronto Montreal
Winnipeg Vancouver Toronto number one on
the top of the list because it doesn't
make sense um you know it it's it's just
become not a good place for many reasons
and you can see that it's it's and at
the top of the list what's going on here
ah Edmonton Calgary they are at the top
of the list seeing it well it's much
more affordable perhaps the availability
of jobs is better you you could argue in
some places anyway uh and that's what's
Happening Here people are saying okay
I'm gone so keep keep that in mind as to
people voting with their dollars they
vote with their feet and you see it all
along you've got to be aware of these
circumstances here today I'm showing you
what's happening on the government level
we bring that down all the way to the
consumers and then how people react so
if you watch these videos right through
into the end there is a flow it takes me
though the entire video to get to that
flow but that's what I want to bring to
you if you appreciated this information
hit the Thumbs Up Button what can you do
as an individual I talk about it all the
time I've got playlists including the
one called how to end Solutions you can
watch that it's on my YouTube channel
totally free I've got everything from
how to make money and other things that
are on there so I want to bring that to
you if you want the biggest detail that
you can get I mean what I do for people
is on the Friday and the Sunday uh
Finance live and business live sessions
it's it's much better it's much better
than in these videos YouTube videos
could ever be I give these View YouTube
videos I make sure that that's totally
open there's no like all the playlists
so much information that I've given over
the years been doing it daily uh since
2011 um and I never wanted to put a pay
wall on that I never did that okay I
never restricted that information but if
you want to sit down with me for two
hours on Friday and two hours on Sunday
that's a totally different thing okay
and that's what we do over
Zoom if you're interested link is in the
description and as always I'll see you
tomorrow take care